# pluribus-config(5) -- config file format for pluribus

## DESCRIPTION

**Pluribus**' configuration file uses the [TOML](https://github.com/toml-lang/toml) format.
Note that this means you can use `#` to begin a comment within it.

**Pluribus**' configuration file can be divided into two parts.
The first consists of simple key-value pairs, separated by an `=` sign, that modify the overall behaviour of **Pluribus**.
These should be at the beginning of the file, entirely before the second part.
The available options are described in the [configuration options][] section.

The second part details the various volumes to be managed by **Pluribus**.
The information about each volume begins with the tag for the volume, in square brackets.
For example `[the-first-volume]`.
Every subsequent key-value pair defines a property of that volume.
Some of these properties are mandatory, and must be included for every volume.
The available properties are described in the [volume properties][] section.

Some volume tags are reserved by **Pluribus**, and can be used for purposes other than defining new volumes.
These are described in the [reserved volumes][] section.

### Volume properties

Two of the volume properties are mandatory: `title` and `content`.
`title` is a string, used as the title for the volume, set using LaTeX's `\title` command.
`content` is also a string, used as a file path.
This file must be a `.tex` file, containing the main matter for the volume.
Other volume properties are optional, and are given below.

* `documentclass` and `documentclass_options`:
	These two strings are used for the first line of each LaTeX file:<br>
	`\documentclass[`<documentclass_options>`]{`<documentclass>`}`
	<br><br>
	
	For example, you might use:<br>
	`documentclass = "memoir"`<br>
	`documentclass_options = "a4paper,10pt"`
	
	The defaults are:<br>
	`documentclass = "book"`<br>
	`documentclass_options = ""`
	
	Normally, these will be the same for all volumes, and should be set with the reserved volume `all`.

### Reserved volumes

* `all`:
	Any properties set in this volume are set for all other volumes, including `omnibus` and `pluribus`.
	Any of these properties are overwritten for a given volume if they are set specifically in that volume's entry.

* `omnibus`:
	If this volume is included in the configuration, the resulting makefile will also contain a rule for generating an omnibus edition, which contains the main matter from every other specified volume.
	The `content` volume property is not required or permitted for this volume.

* `pluribus`:
	If this volume is included in the configuration, the resulting makefile will also contain rules for generating pluribus editions, which include the main matter from a selection of the other specified volumes.
	The `content` volume property is not required or permitted for this volume.

### Configuration options

Configuration options modify the overall behaviour of **Pluribus**. They should be set above any volme definitions in the configuration file.
The following options are available:

* `makefile`:
	This string sets the path of the makefile created by **Pluribus**, relative to the configuration file.
	The default is `Makefile`.

* `makefile_standalone`:
	This sets whether the makefile created by **Pluribus** is intended to stand alone or not; whether it features an `all` rule.
	It defaults to `true`.

* `pluribus_directory`:
	This sets the path to the directory where **Pluribus** creates its `.tex` files, and other supporting files, relative to the directory containing the makefile.
	It defaults to `.pluribus`.

* `disable_safety`:
	**Pluribus** ordinarily refuses to overwrite a makefile which was not itself created by **Pluribus**.
	It inserts a comment in the first line of its own makefiles to identify this.
	Setting `disable_safety = true` overrides this behaviour, allowing **Pluribus** to overwrite manually created makefiles.

## EXAMPLES

### With standalone makefile

	makefile = "Makefile"
	makefile_standalone = true
	
	[the-first-volume]
	title = "A Story: Volume One"
	contents = "the-first-volume/main.tex"
	
	[the-second-volume]
	title = "A Story: Volume Two"
	contents = "the-second-volume/main.tex"
	
	[omnibus]
	title = "A Story: Omnibus Edition"
	
	[all]
	documentclass = "memoir"
	documentclass_options = "a4paper,10pt"

### With partial makefile

The contents of `pluribus-config.toml`:

	makefile = "pluribus.mk"
	makefile_standalone = false
	
	[the-first-volume]
	title = "A Story: Volume One"
	contents = "the-first-volume/main.tex"

And the contents of `Makefile`, in the same directory as `pluribus-config.toml`:

	all: the-first-volume.pdf
	.PHONY: all
	
	include pluribus.mk
	
	pluribus.mk: pluribus-config.toml
		pluribus $<

This leverages GNU make's ability to generate makefiles which it is provided rules for, in order to include them.

## CONFORMING TO

TOML v1.0.0

## SEE ALSO

pluribus(1), make(1)
